We are back at Wednesday, June 23rd, 1943, and the principal talk of the Gilead graduation
was delivered by Brother Nor, who spoke on the subject, work, patience, and faith.
Don't write that down because that's not the theme that we're going to consider today.
But we have another member of the governing body, Brother Sam Heard, and he's going to
speak on the intriguing theme, Humbly Humble.
If I should ask you, are you humble students, and you say, yes, then you're not humble.
Now you look humble.
It's been a good program up until now, we'll see what follows.
We all know that we must be humble through and through.
This is something that Jehovah requires of all his servants.
Not proud to be humble, but humbly humble.
That's what pleases God.
So that's what we're going to talk about.
But what do we mean by humble?
Well, it's loneliness of mine.
Certainly, it's not pompous.
Field to the Giles with self-importance.
Jehovah says that Proverbs 8, 13, I hate self-exaltation and pride.
So we want to let that sink into our hearts.
Pride is something that Jehovah hates, but he is pleased with those who are humble.
Now you've increased your spiritual knowledge while attending Gilead School, but you have
not scratched the surface of what you will know in the future.
Your understanding of many things has been sharpened in these few months that you've
been here.
And now you are eager to tell others about what you've learned, and there's certainly
nothing wrong with that.
We can say it's good, but here's a caution.
Be careful.
Be extremely careful.
Not to become a show off.
Standing ahead and shoulders above your brothers and sisters in your branches or in your congregations.
Don't toot your horn.
Get someone else to blow your horn, and the sound will carry twice as far said will roger's.
Better yet, consider what Jehovah inspired to be written at Proverbs 27-2.
Let someone else praise you and not your own mouth.
Others and not your own lips.
Now while it may be true that they may not know as much as you, but what they know will
carry them through the end of their system of things into the new world.
Jehovah loves them just as much as he loves you.
Now I heard an experience years ago about a Bible student just starting to study, knows
a few things, loves the truth as much as he knows.
Then he comes down sick unto death, and the doctors at the hospital say you must have
a blood transfusion, but he knows enough, no blood for me, no blood transfusion.
His family is not in the truth.
Take that blood, boy, no blood for me.
Others try to get him to take blood, no blood for me.
And so the doctor operates that's successful.
Everyone's happy.
When his teacher and others in the congregation are invited to the hospital, he has something
to say, what is it?
After they're gathered around his bed, they're thinking that something has gone wrong.
He's going to have to take blood, and he's willing to do it when he says, why is it
that we don't take blood?
Now he does not know that the Gentile times ended in 1914.
He doesn't know the difference between sovereignty and all the other things that people talk
about today, but he knows the truth, just a little bit of the truth.
He's not concerned with the vindication of God's name and the sovereignty, the rightfulness
of God's rule.
He doesn't know that much, but he knows enough when his life is on the line.
He'd rather die than the break God's law, even he can't explain that law.
Now why say all that?
It's not how much we know that pleases Jehovah, but how we feel about what we know and
how we have allowed that knowledge to increase our love for Jehovah.
Now I'm going to invite you to open your Bible, Bible students, Gilead students.
Let's turn to Romans.
Romans, we're going to read in the 12th chapter, we're going to read a couple verses.
Where are they found?
Well, verse three starts us all.
It says, for through the undeserved kindness given to me, I tell everyone there, among
you not to think more of himself than it is necessary to think, but to think so as
to have a sound mind, each one as God has given to him a measure of faith.
There it is.
We can't get too stuck on ourselves and how much we know.
That's not what Jehovah wants out of us.
Now look at verse 16, have the same attitude toward others as toward yourselves, do not
set your mind on lofty things, but be let along with the lowly things, do not become wise
in your own eyes.
That's good counsel isn't it, Gilead students, excellent counsel, but you know sometimes we
need a little more than a couple of verses for it to reach the heart.
We need to know a few more things.
Knowledge has been given to us in the great abundance of these few months that we've been
here at Gilead school and we've just loved it, but in first Corinthians 8 and 1, it tells
us something and we want to think seriously about.
It says, we know we all have knowledge, now here it's coming, knowledge puffs up, but
love builds up, now you've got a lot of knowledge.
So be careful that it does not puff you up so that you stand as a head and shoulders
higher than your brothers and sisters in the congregation.
You hope it loves them just as much as he loves you who have this advanced knowledge now
all because of your schooling.
Be as humble as a little child.
And Jesus tells us a little bit about that in Matthew chapter 18.
This is what he says in verses 3 and 4, truly I say to you, unless you turn around and
become as young children, you will by no means enter into the kingdom of the heavens.
Therefore, whoever humbles himself, like this young child, is the one who is the greatest
in the kingdom of the heavens.
So we say humbly be humble.
Job has got the most high, the universal sovereign, the king of eternity is humble.
This is what King David said of him.
Psalm 18, your own humility will make me great and a God's humility that makes us great too.
If Jehovah were not humble, we would not be here.
No one of mankind would be a lot.
He's humble and he has the right to expect humility out of each and every one of us.
We need to help each other to be humble, not glorify a human.
So we say this because sometimes some of our brothers and sisters look at us as members
of the governing body as if we are already angels and all you have to do is ask our wives
if we are angels.
You'll get a true story.
We're not.
Just sinners like all the rest of you.
So don't elevate us above where we are and what we are.
If we want to elevate anything, elevate Jehovah.
Now that doesn't mean that we feel that you have wronged us in some way.
No, you have it.
You're just human.
And as humans, we're filled with sin and we get carried away, but help us to be humble
to rather than elevating us.
If Bible tells us of Jehovah, he stoops down to look on heaven and earth, Psalm 113, 6.
What does that mean?
Well, he unbeends.
He waves the privilege of rank, Jehovah does that.
So he's teaching us to wave the privilege of rank.
We're all brothers.
That's all we are.
We don't measure up as tall as Jesus.
We just try to.
We try to dog his steps as best we can.
Follow the example of Jehovah.
He allowed Abraham to question his righteousness in purpose into destroy the wicked cities of
Sodom and Gomorrah.
Genesis chapter 18.
So Abraham says, if there's 50 righteous men, are you still going to destroy everything?
He says, no, I will not.
Abraham comes by 45.
He says, no, I will not destroy them.
40, no, I will not.
30, no, 20, no, 10, no.
Okay, Abraham, that's enough.
Close your mouth.
Now I added that.
You know what the Bible really says?
It says, when Jehovah finished speaking to Abraham, he went his way.
Still humble.
On a couple of occasions, he allowed Moses to reason with him as if he was another human.
It took humility for him to grant Moses pleas, but he did.
Now what about Jesus?
Was he humble?
Well, let's take a look at Philippians chapter 2 verses 5 through 8.
Can we do that?
Philippians 2, 5 through 8.
We understand that some of you do not have your iPad or your Bible, but that's all right.
You'll have time to get it later.
Now here in the second chapter, we're able to read, starting with verse 5, it says, keep
this mental attitude in you that was in Christ Jesus, who although he was existing in God's
form gave no consideration to a seizure, namely that he should be equal to God.
Nobody emptied himself and took a slave form and became human.
More than that, when he came as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to the point
of death.
Yes, death on a torture stake.
So yes, Jesus was humble, and Jesus washed the feet, the dirty feet of his apostles, to
show them how to be humble.
That was the job that a servant should have done, or a slave job.
He lured himself in front of them, perhaps he was on his knees when he washed their feet.
John 13.
Now why would I say that?
Well, I saw a picture.
I saw a picture in the office building in Warwick, beautiful picture.
Jesus is washing the feet of his apostles, and where's the ant?
He's on his knees.
Now the Bible doesn't say he was on his knees, I know that up, it wasn't, didn't say that
John 13 chapter, but how are you going to wash feet if you don't get down toward the
feet?
So there he was, on his knees, teaching him a lesson.
The apostle Paul said a fine example of a humility, he called himself a slave of Jesus
Christ, Philippians 1-1.
Now if he had not been humble, he would not have written these words that I'm about to
read.
For I know that in me, that is in my flesh there dwells nothing good, for I have the desire
to do what is fine, but not the ability to carry out.
For I do not do the good that I wish, but the bad that I do not wish is what I practice,
Romans 7, and he was given a supernatural vision, or visions, I should say, and revelations.
He was used moderately by Jehovah God in Acts chapter 19, verses 11 through 16, we're
able to see that, says, and God kept performing extraordinary, powerful works through the
hands of Paul, so that even claws and aprons that had touched his body were carried to
the sick, and the diseases left them, and the wicked spirits came out, but some of the
Jews who traveled around casting out demons also tried to do the same of the Lord, use
the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had practiced spirits, they would say, I solemnly
charge you by Jesus whom Paul preaches.
Now there were seven sons of a Jewish chief priest named Siva doing this, but in answer,
the wicked spirit said to them, I know Jesus, and I'm acquainted with Paul, but who are
you?
Not that the man who, with the wicked spirit, leaped on them, overpowered them one after
the other and prevailed against them so that they fled naked and wounded out of the house.
Evidently, they were not humbly humble for Jesus to let them use his name to cast out
the wicked spirits.
Paul was inspired to write 14 of the 27 books of the Christian Greek scriptures.
Now he did not get big-headed, but he stayed humble.
He's not the only humble soul.
Here's another one, Nathan H. Norr, third president of the Wastar Bible and Tracks Society.
He's visited the member of the writing department in the member's office and he stated that
his brother Norr stated, this, the member's office, this is where the most important as
well as the most difficult work takes place, that's why I do so little of it.
Isn't that beautiful?
That's the humble statement.
You know what I say behind it?
I say amen to it.
I'm on the writing committee of the governing body for some reason, unknown.
I can't write not a lick, but there I am.
The humility shown by brother Norr made me think back in time when a group of traveling
overseers was attending school in Crownsville, Maryland.
Brother Ted Jairst was one of the instructors and he got up early one morning and prepared
a hot breakfast for all of us.
He did that.
I was one of the instructors, but it didn't cross my mind to do a thing like that.
Maybe I wasn't humbly humble, or if I was, I didn't show it.
I can't cook either, not, not a lick.
What does it take to be exalted?
Let's let the Bible answer, Luke 14-11, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled
and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
What does it take?
It takes humility.
Don't learn that others are superior to the hard way.
Take a lesson from my old doll, Houndo, named Boozer.
Sometimes he wouldn't follow us to town.
And one day we passed a home where usually there's a little dog that lives there, but he
died, and something called Boozer's nose, and so Boozer was sniffing around, sniffing
around, and he got over near the house, and a big Dalmatian comes charging around the
side of the house, and he attacked Boozer.
Boozer put up a fight, but he lost the Dalmatian one.
Boozer tucked his tail between his legs, and he darted out of there like a streak of
lightning.
Little a couple of weeks later, Boozer wanted to go to town with us again, walking.
But we noticed when we got to the Dalmatian's house, the Boozer was gone.
Boozer took a long trip around the house, met us downtown.
We're about to wrap this up.
He was humbly humble.
He viewed the Dalmatian as superior.
Now students, do you get to point a Boozer's example?
View others as superior.
They probably are.
That was a fantastic talk, and I assure you Sam is a very humble person.
He just can't cook.
Well we have a few announcements for you.
First of all, you'll be interested in the attendance.
In Canada, there are 902, and here in the United States, 9,702, for a total of 10,604.
Now of course, we know that with the streaming, many, many more are going to be looking
in on the program later, so it's going to be a lot more than 10,000.
Now we've had some beautiful expressions from the branches, greetings to our students.
We don't have time to read all of them.
They will go in the archives of the teaching committee.
If I can't read all of them, I don't want to read just one or two.
But here are the countries that are represented that have sent beautiful expressions to us.
Ebola, Argentina, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Britain, Bulgaria, Burundi, Canada, Finland,
France, Georgia, Ghana, Haiti, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Korea, Madagascar,
Mozambique, Netherlands, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Portugal, Sierra Leone, Thailand,
and Ukraine.
And that's just about the end of the alphabet.
So we appreciate all of these greetings, beautiful expressions of appreciation from the
folks in these branches.
While we go back to 1943, and following the principal talk, what happened?
Here's what we read, here's the report.
A large case containing the diplomas was opened and put on the podium table.
One by one, all the students were called to come forward to receive their diplomas.
Well, we're going to follow that pattern right now.
That pattern established 75 years ago.
And I'm very happy to have Brother David Schaefer with me if you were present for the introductions
of the class.
You know what a beautiful job David did with all the names of the students.
And so, behold, the 144th class of Gilead.
And first, we have Brother and Sister Abu, who will be returning to the Middle East.
Brother and Sister Aloy will be serving in the Middle East.
Brother and Sister Ahuda will be returning to Brazil.
Brother and Sister Basco Pei will be returning to Bolivia.
Brother Buckin will be returning to Britain.
Brother and Sister Chilton will be serving in South Africa.
Sister Shorth Gow will be returning to Thailand.
Brother and Sister Dahui will be returning to the Netherlands.
Brother and Sister Esabuna will be returning to Nigeria.
Brother and Sister Gigan will be returning to Venezuela.
Brother Yutvara will be returning to Estonia.
Brother and Sister Kelly will be returning to Hong Kong.
Brother Larty will be returning to Ghana.
Brother and Sister Menju will be returning to Britain.
Brother and Sister Michani will be returning to Albania.
Sister Nguyen will be returning to Asia.
Sister Ninghi will be returning to Papua Nugini.
Brother Inkurun Ziza will be returning to Burundi.
Brother Wadrao Gow will be returning to Benin.
Brother and Sister Pietrasson will be returning to Denmark.
Brother and Sister Sandi will be returning to Sierra Leone.
Brother and Sister Santos will be returning to Portugal.
Brother Skarmato will be returning to Argentina.
Brother and Sister Stepanov will be returning to Azerbaijan.
Brother Titu will be returning to Mozambique.
Brother Gushi will be returning to Georgia.
Brother Voya Vodin will be returning to Asia.
Brother and Sister Wembalola will be serving in Madagascar.
And Sister Wojcik will be returning to Poland.
And here they are.
Let's go back to 1943.
Once all the diplomas were handed out, what happened?
Well, the report tells us that a representative of the class
read a statement expressing the student's appreciation
for the privilege of attending Gilead
and assuring the governing body of their loyalty to Jehovah
and his organization.
We're going to follow the same pattern today.
And Brother Richard Chilton is going to read a class letter
on behalf of the class to the governing body, dear brothers.
Few things in life bring greater satisfaction
than meaningful discussions on spiritual topics
with dear friends.
Over the last five months, we have enjoyed
the blessing of being immersed in such discussions
on a daily basis.
As we studied the Bible book by book,
the examples of faithful men and women of the past
came to life and touched our hearts in new ways.
Reliving the modern day history of Jehovah's organization,
we marveled at the faith, courage, and self-sacrifice
of those who have gone before us.
Our skills in the ministry were refined through workshops
and are desired to share in the preaching work intensified.
As the weeks passed, fellow students became close friends.
Now, as the class has come to an end,
tears come to our eyes as we think about parting ways.
But we will treasure the memories
of the stimulating interchange of encouragement
with our new group of friends.
And what a blessing to be guided by mature devoted instructors
who combined spiritual matters with spiritual words.
We are grateful for their loving support
as they nurtured our spiritual growth.
And we will never forget their example of zeal for God's word.
Getting to know the Bethel family has been a real delight.
Young people who expend themselves energetically
in the service of the God they love and older ones
who display the wisdom that comes with decades of experience
in applying Christian principles.
Their kindness, friendship, and hospitality
have touched our hearts.
Sometimes we think we know our friends well,
but our appreciation for them is enhanced
as we find out more about good deeds they have done in the past.
This has been the case in our relationship with our God.
Jehovah constantly surprises and delights us.
As we reflect on all that He is and all that He has done,
we feel moved to praise His beautiful name.
While this school has far exceeded our expectations,
it has also left us longing for more.
We are resolved to continue our program
of meaningful personal study.
As Moses said in Deuteronomy chapter 30 verse 11,
this commandment is not beyond your reach.
It is not in the heavens, nor on the other side of the sea.
In any situation, we know we will always
find an illuminating scriptural principle
and encouraging thought or an informative article
to help us to do what is right.
Our Gilead course may be over, but we
are left with an even greater appreciation
for the wealth of spiritual food in our publications,
which remains to be explored.
We would not exchange the past five months for anything.
We sincerely thank the governing body
for arranging for us to benefit from this magnificent spiritual
education.
And we assure you that we will do all we
can to use these treasures to build up others.
Your brothers and sisters, the 144th class of Gilead.
Well, what more can we add?
All we can say is that we love you,
and we pray Jehovah's rich blessing upon you,
and may this school of Gilead continue
to serve as a symbol of the peace and unity
of Jehovah's organization.